## [AWS X-Ray](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/xray/latest/devguide/aws-xray.html)
AWS X-Ray is a service that collects data about requests that your application serves, and provides tools that you
can use to view, filter, and gain insights into that data to identify issues and opportunities for optimization.
For any traced request to your application, you can see detailed information not only about the request and response,
but also about calls that your application makes to downstream AWS resources, microservices, databases, and web APIs.

### [X-Ray Traces](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/xray/latest/devguide/xray-concepts.html#xray-concepts-traces)
A trace collects all the segments generated by a single request throughout the full path. The first supported service
that the HTTP request interacts with adds a trace ID header to the request, and propagates it downstream to track
request data.

### [X-Ray Segments](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/xray/latest/devguide/xray-concepts.html#xray-concepts-traces)
The compute resources running your application logic send data about their work as segments. A segment provides the
resource's name, details about the request, and details about the work done.

### [X-Ray Subsegments](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/xray/latest/devguide/xray-concepts.html#xray-concepts-subsegments)
A segment can break down the data about the work done into subsegments. Subsegments provide more granular timing
information and details about downstream calls that your application made to fulfill the original request.
A subsegment can contain additional details about a call to an AWS service, an external HTTP API, or an SQL database.
You can even define arbitrary subsegments to instrument specific functions or lines of code in your application.

### [X-Ray Sampling](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/xray/latest/devguide/xray-concepts.html#xray-concepts-sampling)
To ensure efficient tracing and provide a representative sample of the requests that your application serves,
the X-Ray SDK applies a sampling algorithm to determine which requests get traced. By default, the X-Ray SDK records
the first request each second, and five percent of any additional requests. You can create custom sampling rules to
change this behavior and apply to specific services, url, or request methods.

### [X-Ray Annotations & Metadata](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/xray/latest/devguide/xray-concepts.html#xray-concepts-annotations)
You can add additional information to the segment as annotations and metadata. Annotations are simple key-value pairs that
are indexed for use with filter expressions. Metadata are key-value pairs with values of any type, but are not indexed.
Use metadata to record data you want to store in the trace but don't need to use for searching traces.

### [X-Ray Daemon](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/xray/latest/devguide/xray-daemon.html)
The AWS X-Ray daemon is a software application that listens for traffic on UDP port 2000, gathers raw segment data,
and relays it to the AWS X-Ray API in batches.

### [X-Ray Permissions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/xray/latest/devguide/xray-daemon.html)
The X-Ray daemon uses the AWS SDK to upload trace data to X-Ray, and it needs AWS credentials with permission to do that.
On Amazon EC2, the daemon uses the instance's instance profile role automatically. 